# Spinnaker Update

## Features and release
1.36 was released at the end of November.  1.37.0 was released Feb 24th, 2025, but please got to the latest patch release due to bugs found in the upgrade of retrofit to retrofit2.  As always test in lower environments BEFORE promotion to production environments and
please join the spinnaker slack for more help or information.  More information can be found in the release notes pages
* https://spinnaker.io/changelogs/1.36.0-changelog/
* https://spinnaker.io/changelogs/1.37.0-changelog/

Some big features of these releases:
* 1.36 uses java 17 exclusively for runtime and compilation time.
* Read-only support for pipeline API operations helping distribute the load in high performance environments
* Helm when baking can use a file for values with LARGE numbers of input
* There are new bulk update APIs for pipeline saves
* there's new automation to support automatically disabling old/not run pipelines and can exclude these from the UI
* Backoff periods on retries can be set in the pipelines now!
* A number of google improvements from codebuild in the project to UI fixes 

There are some major incoming features anticipated which will change the functionality of how spinnaker stores data around pipelines, but nothing has been definitively published.

## Adoption updates
No new vendors/migrations/well known users at this time.  We've seen some interesting contributions from new names in the community and some new requests but not a significant change.  

## Contribution trends
Unique contributors has declined over the last few months.  BUT contributions as a whole have increased.  The primary contributors are still the same primary contributors from the last few years.  https://spinnaker.devstats.cd.foundation/d/74/contributions-chart?orgId=1.  Peak contributions to the project ended in 2021 with a steady downward trend since 2023.  
https://spinnaker.devstats.cd.foundation/d/74/contributions-chart?orgId=1&from=now-5y&to=now-2d shows this drop as various contributors stopped publicly contributing. Netflix went to an internal fork and Google stopped contributing directly.  Salesforce is currently the leading contributor and maintainer of Spinnaker.

The spinnaker SIG leads and TOC has been separate for a long time.  There's now plans to merge these two groups into one leadership group for the spinnaker project.  Given reduced activity in the community, this would reduce the amount of
meetings, direction and planning required for work.  This hasn't been officialy proposed but is under debate.


## Security updates
No new security updates or issues.  Patches are being regularly applied.

## Infrastructure updates


## Fun facts

