# Spinnaker Update

The platform is pretty stable at this point and MOST work is done on performance & updating libraries.  There are some major incoming performance enhancements including a release that allows extraction of the contents of pipeline data to S3 courtesy of Apple.  Salesforce continues to push regular internal changes from their forks upstream, and we're seeing some PR's from other companies regularly. The project continues to operate and be utilized.  

## Features and release
Spinnaker has moved to a monorepo AND changed versioning to be a date based release strategy!  With this, 1.38 was released and is the last release using an older versioning scheme.  New releases and actions have been setup
to publish versions 2025.0.x going forward.  1.38 was the equivalent of 2025.0.1

1.37 included a number of feature enhancements, the largest of which was that Orca (the pipeline execution engine) can use read-only connections for some of it's data.  This means you can better distribute operations between write nodes and read nodes on a database cluster.  There were several other enhancements including GCB private pool support, some pipeline definition cleanup automation, and allowing helm overrides for helm templating.

Currently supported releases are available here:
https://spinnaker.io/docs/releases/versions/

## Adoption updates
No updates on adoption at this time.

## Contribution trends
Contributions over the last few months have increased - due in part to some major upgrades (retrofit2 migration) and the monorepo move.  https://spinnaker.devstats.cd.foundation/d/74/contributions-chart?orgId=1&from=now-1y&to=now-2d  

## Security updates
No new security updates or issues.  

## Infrastructure updates


## Fun facts

