# Spinnaker Update

From previous: The spinnaker platform is stable at this point.  The primary work currently being done and planned is around performance improvements and updating dependencies to the later releases like Spring Boot 3 and AWS SDK v2. 
* AWS SDK2 is slowly going into various services.
* Spring boot 3 has a PR in draft, but has significant changes through-out the project to be applied.


## Features and release
The biggest recent set of changes are fixes around retrofit1 to retrofit2 upgrades that had broken numerous releases.  As such, 2025.2.2 is the most stable and recommended release at this time.  It'd be best to avoid the 1.38 and 1.37 based releases in favor of this version.  

Currently supported releases and release notes are available here:
https://spinnaker.io/docs/releases/versions/

Additionally, there's been several enhancement PRs including a major change to the 2025.2 release around oauth2 configuration.

## Adoption updates

Several new users have added themselves to the logo list including:
* wise.com
* glean
* razorpay


## Contribution trends

Contributors have slowed significantly over the last few months due to the releases getting more and more stable.  The number of pull requests is also fairly stable at this point and consistent with fixes.  There ARE two new "Approvers" for the project:
* [Christos Arvanitis](https://github.com/christosarvanitis) 
* [Cristhian Castaneda](https://github.com/cristhian-castaneda) 
Who are both long time contributors who've had permissions elevated.  We are seeing some changeout in the TOC governing board on the opposite side and thank the members leaving for their participation in the project.  We anticipate some additional changes this year related to the
governing of the project.

## Security updates
No new security updates or issues.  Please see the [Spinnaker Security advisories](https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker/security) on github for more information on previous CVEs.  It's HIGHLY recommended to stay up to date with spinnaker security notifications and announcements.  

## Infrastructure updates

There is some debate on the use of GCP for image hosting given current costs for the project.  It's been raised internally that there may be cheaper options e.g. GHCR or dockerhub vs. using GHCR for publishing in the future barring changes in credits or similar.


## Fun facts

