CDF TOC Meeting Agenda
----------------------

Logistics:

-   Meeting: [*https://zoom.us/my/cdf.toc*](https://zoom.us/my/cdf.toc)

-   Youtube Channel:
    > [*https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7HcWhSetq6nTlpMXPHKz\_A*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7HcWhSetq6nTlpMXPHKz_A)

-   Twitter:
    > [*https://twitter.com/CDeliveryFdn*](https://twitter.com/CDeliveryFdn)

Future Agenda Items (please add as necessary):
----------------------------------------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - not present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) -

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - not present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) -

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

    -   Matt Young (Puppet)

    -   Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)

    -   Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)

    -   Benjamin Brial (Cycloid)

    -   Jacqueline Salinas

    -   Tracy Ragan (Deploy Hub)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   

Oct 8, 2019 
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - not present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) - not present

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - not present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - not present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - not present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Jacqueline Salinas (LF/CD Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees) - not present

    -   Matt Young (Puppet)

    -   Kara de la Marck (CloudBees) - not present

    -   Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology) - not present

    -   Benjamin Brial (Cycloid) - not present

    -   Tracy Ragan (Deploy Hub) - present

    -   Kay Williams (Microsoft) - present

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Landscape review (Tracy Ragan):

        -   Requests approval to move landscape forward (now published),
            > needs infra support to help companies create PRs, and
            > review

            -   TOC should be responsible for this -- start with
                > reviewing PRs in TOC meetings, but if traffic gets
                > heavy review other options (paid resource?)

        -   Question: CNCF landscape has duplication of the same
            > company/products in different categories. What policy does
            > the CDF want to have/support with regards to this.

            -   Dan Lopez: be clear about rational for this either way
                > (review of CNCF policy)

                -   Tracy recommends we discourage multiple categories
                    > -- focus on core competency of each tool/project

            -   Need to ensure we have commitment to maintenance,
                > (overseen by TOC?)

            -   Dan: landscape entries don’t necessary have to be member
                > organizations (based on CNCF precedent)

                -   Complimentary offerings (integrations, i.e.)

                -   Also recruit opportunities for OSS projects for
                    > incubation

                -   “Projects” must be OSS but commercial products can
                    > be listed in discipline categories -- logos need
                    > to be clear on this

                -   We should also identify airgaps where we want to
                    > solicit

            -   TracyR: provided quick review of categories

                -   Tara and team agree there is some overlap

            -   Dan Lopez: Like to have this out and published by Oct 22
                > and available by Kubecon NA

        -   Recommendation to announce to members to add logos via PRs

            -   Tara to take care of this with Dan Lopez review

    -   TOC Minutes to Github (Tara Hernandez)

        -   Tara H: Going to go ahead and start doing this, post-meeting
            > convert live gdoc notes into .md file(s)

    -   Telemetry discussion (Dan Lopez)

        -   What are projects doing, wanting to do

        -   best practices, standards, specs

        -   Legal considerations incl GDPR

        -   Missing some key TOC folks -- followup on this next meeting

            -   Need to understand what information we want to capture
                > and figure out least invasive way to achieve it

            -   Triggering regulatory controls Would Be Bad(™)

    -   

Sep 24, 2019 
-------------

-   Friendlier meeting time for our APAC friends? (Dan Lopez)

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) -

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - not present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - not present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - not present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

    -   Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)

    -   David Lai

    -   Jacqueline Salinas

    -   Matt Young (Puppet)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Security SIG

        -   Next steps for Security SIG -- founding team?

        -   Updates

        -   DLc: people involved are at a f2f meeting. I’m not surprised
            > they are not here

        -   DLz: bi-weekly meeting will commence in Oct, along with the
            > logistics setup.

            -   Done: ACL, repository. (this has been done b/w Tara
                > & DLz)

            -   Goal is to use Wiki as a scratch documentation place,
                > but the formal doc will be in markdown in Git repo

        -   DLz: we are planning a media announcement of the effort

            -   KK: this reminds me it’d be great for us to have a voice
                > as blog / TDM: “developer voice”

                -   DLz: if you write one or recruit people to write
                    > ones, that’d be great! Just put them in GDoc or
                    > something and send it on our way

    -   TDM: CD Summit

        -   Agenda is live -
            > [*https://cds2019.sched.com/*](https://cds2019.sched.com/)

        -   Please register now (only 200 spaces)

        -   TDM: Christie and I are co-chairing. We got 50+ submissions
            > against 15 slots. I’m very happy with the schedule —
            > great sessions. Thanks to people who reviewed sessions.

        -   DLz: there will be some media announcement on this as well

        -   DLc: there’s also codefresh CI/CD summit happening on the
            > same day. Just FYI.

        -   TDM: if you are coming, plan to stick around in the evening.
            > Some activities are being planned.

            -   TDM: member companies who have booth will run some
                > guerilla sessions related to the CDF and we’ll stitch
                > them together into one “virtual” event

        -   DLc: can we plan an in-person meeting for SIG/TOC/GB?

            -   Probably during the main show

            -   ACTION: DLz to inquire from Emily

    -   Roadmap WG

        -   FD: I was looking for wording to be more explicitly invite
            > anyone involved in space.

        -   DLc: That part of the text was a little unclear

        -   Next step: KK to resolve FD’s comment by massaging the text,
            > plus produce a few samples

    -   CDF & Outreachy - project deadline 24th Sep - that’s today!

        -   [*https://www.outreachy.org/apply/project-selection/*](https://www.outreachy.org/apply/project-selection/)

        -   1 Jenkins project ([*Integrate Jenkins with GitHub
            > Apps*](https://www.outreachy.org/december-2019-to-march-2020-internship-round/communities/jenkins/#integrate-jenkins-with-github-apps))

        -   2 Jenkins X projects

            -   [*Create a Cloud Storage backed Helm repository for
                > Jenkins X replacing
                > ChartMuseum*](https://www.outreachy.org/december-2019-to-march-2020-internship-round/communities/jenkins-x/#create-a-cloud-storage-backed-helm-repository-for-)

            -   [*Improve the Jenkins X Apps
                > Framework*](https://www.outreachy.org/december-2019-to-march-2020-internship-round/communities/jenkins-x/#improve-the-jenkins-x-apps-framework)

        -   Tekton pending

            -   Because Tekton was accepted as a community, deadline for
                > this is now Oct.

    -   Fatih: CDF TOC meetings are not showing up in the public
        > calendar

        -   ACTION: Jacqueline to look into this

    -   MLOPs Working Group

        -   Please review proposal:
            > [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/34*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/34)

Sep 10 (?)
----------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - not present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) -

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) -

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

    -   Matt Young (Puppet)

    -   Kara de la Marck (CloudBees)

    -   Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)

    -   Benjamin Brial (Cycloid)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Friendlier meeting time for our APAC friends? (Dan Lopez)

        -   

    -   Next steps for Security SIG -- founding team?

        -   *https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security*

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security/blob/master/.github/settings.yml*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security/blob/master/.github/settings.yml)

    -   CDF & Outreachy

        -   [*CDF Projects in Outreachy
            > 2019*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WLTEbDOyrdr6TeDghHe1_1_D7W3h7gZ4pSxEP53FMhk/edit?ts=5d681d47#).

            -   Kara de la Mack - Jenkins X coordinator

                -   Advocate for program as a way of building community,
                    > particularly for mentor best practices as an
                    > ongoing effort for projects

                -   Recommends at least 2 well-defined projects as part
                    > of successful recruitment

                    -   Even if you only pay for one intern, there may
                        > be some fund matching from outreachy to help

            -   Tara Hernandez - Tekton coordinator

                -   Still working on setting up projects

            -   Christie Wilson - Tekton mentor

            -   Tracy Miranda - Jenkins coordinator

        -   Sept 5 was the deadline for signing up for the intern
            > program

            -   Jenkins, Jenkins X, Tekton all signed up

    -   CDF Contributor Summit

        -   [*Talks
            > repo*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/presentations/tree/master/2019-contributor-summit-sf) -
            > please add your talk links!

    -   CD Summit NA

        -   [*Call-for-papers*](https://linuxfoundation.smapply.io/prog/continuous_delivery_summit_north_america_2019_/)
            > closes this Friday

    -   Schedule time for demo of LF CommunityBridge

        -   Dan Lopez/LF Product team (DLopez)

        -   Manage crowdfunding, internships etc

    -   Discuss possible alternative to Google Docs for meeting minutes
        > to support int’l members (tara hernandez,tracy miranda)

    -   Create a roster of who’s where, and a survey of what times work
        > best

Aug 27, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) - not present

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - not present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - not present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Ray Paik (GitLab)

    -   Matt Young (Puppet)

    -   Jeff Zhu (Futurewei)

    -   Fatih Degirmenci (Ericsson Software Technology)

    -   Wolfram Kramer (SAP)

    -   Kay Williams (Microsoft)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Vote on CDF Security SIG

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/26*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/26)

        -   **KK: let’s call a vote / Tara: +1 / Andy +1**

    -   Screwdriver update

        -   &lt;&lt; KK provided updates &gt;&gt;

    -   Create Roadmap

        -   Projects, priorities

        -   DLpz: Chris & I were talking about this, looking at how CNCF
            > did this roadmapping. Establish the area that we want to
            > attack — specs, conformance, etc. CDF should have
            > that, too.

            -   KK: challenge I had was to find projects with passionate
                > backers, as opposed to “wish list of things we’d love
                > to see”

            -   KK: if we frame this as “call for projects” to clarify
                > what we are looking for, that might encourage people
                > out there to step up

            -   DLpz: I like Tara’s “reference architecture” idea.

            -   Kay: There are some projects in CNCF that I think are
                > good fit for the CDF. Shouldn’t we be talking with
                > them to have them come over?

                -   Kay had a specific project in mind

                -   Tara: maybe we look at the ecosystem map and that
                    > might give us the list

                -   KK: maybe we can start by giving more visibility and
                    > facilitate collaboration between CNCF projects and
                    > CDF projects/efforts.

                -   DLpz: Chris / Dan to discuss WG on cross-foundation
                    > collaboration

            -   Tara: I’d like to see smoother migration from non-cloud
                > to hybrid cloud easier.

                -   KK: +1.

                -   Tara: this will help useful differentiation

                -   AG: I think “hybrid” is important. That prevents
                    > people from getting an impression that this is
                    > cloud vendor’s play

            -   KK: common format — e.g., test spec

            -   KK: call out more specific projects in the SDLC like
                > artifact manager, test frameworks, code coverage, etc.

            -   **Let’s form a WG so that we can get people to spend
                > their focused time brainstorming**

            -   KK: provisioning / Tara: environment management

                -   This happens all the time. This wheel is
                    > getting reinvented.

                -   New team comes onboard and DPE folks are trying to
                    > automate the setup of Jenkins, JIRA, K8s
                    > namespace, ...

    -   Matt: Do folks need help with CFP reviews or summit prep?

        -   Matt: Puppet is willing to help.

        -   DLpz: you should talk to Tracy Regan @ the outreach
            > committee

        -   DLpz: I’m calling attention to the timing of CfP

            -   DLpz: Diversity, inclusion is getting worked on by the
                > GB, if you have thoughts, send it to me

            -   Attendance? Projects?

            -   KK: calling attention to diversity in terms of geos of
                > companies who participate. CDF participants are often
                > companies, not individuals.

            -   TH:

    -   AOB?

        -   Fatih: I have Q around TOC contributors. I read [*the
            > document*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md).
            > Is that only for member companies?

            -   I issued a PR to add myself to this but no responses for
                > 3 weeks

            -   KK: let’s make sure these things don’t go unnoticed

                -   TH & KK to make sure notification setup is done
                    > properly

Aug 13, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X)

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker)

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Kay Williams (Microsoft)

    -   Ravi Lachhman (Harness)

    -   &lt;&lt; fill your names here please &gt;&gt;

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Screwdriver next steps

        -   Tara: what I’ve heard is that the engagement with the
            > community wasn’t the first priority. It felt a bit like
            > “coming here for the sake of it.” It felt like a
            > vanity contribution.

        -   DLc: I share some of the same concerns with Tara

        -   KK: I suggest I drive a further conversation. I feel like
            > our goals are still aligned in terms of bringing
            > them onboard.

        -   Yoav/KK: there’s a bit of chicken and egg problem. Others:
            > +1

    -   [*Security SIG
        > proposal*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QHD628FJ4s9lyWtPUtzdTr2fbmnhyuB_908cfsJzDqU/edit)

        -   Kay: Dan & I chatted yesterday and I’m going to create a PR.
            > That’s already there.

        -   What’s the next step? -&gt; discussion from the group

            -   Kay to send out email to call out people to chime in or
                > be ready to vote

        -   KK: I’ve heard this effort in MITRE under the OMG umbrella

            -   Kay: I think what I’ve heard is the same lead

            -   Yoav: I’m interested

            -   KK: I’ll connect us all in that email

    -   Updates from the CDF contributor summit

        -   &lt;&lt; KK rambled a bit. Will write an email &gt;&gt;

        -   Kay: I got a similar impression. The CDF is still new

        -   Tara: don’t over emphasize development, and instead
            > highlight other functions, like infra, quality, process, …
            > are welcomed and they are needed.

            -   Be overt about those. Advertise them.

July 30, 2019
-------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - traveling

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) - not present

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - not present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

    -   R Tyler Croy (Jenkins)

    -   Spencer Krum (IBM)

    -   Kay Williams (Microsoft)

    -   Ray Paik (GitLab)

    -   TODO

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   CDF Contributor Summit, Mon Aug 12, San Francisco

        -   Jenkins -
            > [*Register*](https://www.meetup.com/jenkinsmeetup/events/262686097/)

        -   Jenkins X -
            > [*Register*](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/jenkins-x-contributor-summit-2019-san-francisco-tickets-65105473223)

        -   Tekton -
            > [*Register*](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/tekton-contributor-summit-2019-san-francisco-tickets-64992545453)

    -   DevOps World | Jenkins World

        -   CDF booth, [*CDF member
            > talks*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hVJgw4u2zvfd9tfhpIE3C5Jai6bH-bMNS-zj4m1aJpo/edit#)

        -   Open Spaces sessions for [*Jenkins*](https://sched.co/SpGL),
            > [*Jenkins X*](https://sched.co/SpGX),
            > [*Tekton*](https://sched.co/SpGb) &
            > [*Spinnaker*](https://sched.co/SpGA)

    -   RFC: Screwdriver:
        > [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/22*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/22)

        -   Call a vote?

    -   [*Outreachy Internships*](https://www.outreachy.org/)

        -   Next round is December 2019 to March 2020

        -   Sept 5 is deadline for community sign up

        -   Jenkins project has participated in last 2 rounds (4
            > different Outreachy interns)

        -   How:

            -   Need to identify mentors and scoping 12 week projects

            -   Can be for more than just code (docs, design, etc.)

    -   Friendlier meeting time for our APAC friends? (Dan Lopez)

        -   Suggestion is to have an additional or augmented meeting
            > time

    -   Annual goals from the TOC? (Dan Lorenc)

        -   Place in Github project/milestones

        -   Goals related to:

            -   Interoperability, standards, specs, conformance

            -   forward-looking strategy

            -   security

            -   project hygiene/infrastructure

    -   Working Group Proposal Status

    -   Jenkins from SPI status (rtyler)

        -   What is the status of transferring assets?

        -   Chris A. was tracking this.

        -   This is taking longer than anyone expected, Jenkins has some
            > budget items it needs to resolve

July 16, 2019
-------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - traveling

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) - not present

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - not present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - not present

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - present

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Dan Lopez (Linux Foundation)

    -   Tracy Miranda (CloudBees)

    -   Ray Paik (GitLab)

    -   Kay Williams (Microsoft)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   DLc: [*Working group
        > proposal*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/21)

        -   Kay Williams to send out and link the prototype Security SIG
            > proposal (done)

    -   Screwdriver proposal:
        > [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/22*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/22)

    -   CDF Contributor Summit, Mon Aug 12, San Francisco

        -   Jenkins -
            > [*Register*](https://www.meetup.com/jenkinsmeetup/events/262686097/)

        -   Jenkins X -
            > [*Register*](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/jenkins-x-contributor-summit-2019-san-francisco-tickets-65105473223)

        -   Tekton -
            > [*Register*](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/tekton-contributor-summit-2019-san-francisco-tickets-64992545453)

        -   Also planning events at main DevOpsWorld

            -   Booth, talks from member projects and companies

    -   CFP for CD Summit San Diego coming up next

        -   Reach out to Tracy if you want to participate in the program
            > committee

        -   Open up CFP process

    -   &lt;[*dlorenc@google.com*](mailto:dlorenc@google.com) to figure
        > out permissions on this doc&gt;

    -   DLc: EasyCLA - Tekton

        -   LF is launching a new project called EasyCLA

        -   Automates a Github Bot to handle signatures for CLA per
            > project

        -   Starting implementation for Tekton

        -   This should be useful for other projects going forward as
            > well

        -   TOC should drive requirement around CLA best practices

July 2, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\] - present

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X)

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton) - present

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) - present

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) - on vacation

    -   Yaov Landman (JFrog) - present

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   [*Screwdriver.cd*](https://github.com/screwdriver-cd) team to
        > present to TOC

        -   [*Presentation
            > PDF*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B5ImblZwZHW4X2FFOWZiUDNuckVtODRXeUtwQnJ0MGdmM3dF/view?usp=sharing)

        -   People from Verizon Media = Yahoo + AOL

            -   Gyehuda, Ashley, Rosalie

            -   Venugopal, Jithin Emmanuel - Product Owner,

        -   We built this project in the hope it’s useful for others

        -   We wanted to build a system that involves no humans

        -   Used across the portfolio of VM companies

        -   Origin is 2012 at Yahoo

        -   Pipeline as Code

        -   Initially this was orchestrator on top of Jenkins, then we
            > hit the wall, so we rebuilt it

        -   We wanted to make sure it works at the scale of Yahoo

        -   The result of rewrite got open-sourced in 2016

        -   &lt;&lt; architecture diagram in the presentation &gt;&gt;

        -   Can use different ‘executor’ to actually carry out builds -
            > Docker, K8s, even Jenkins

            -   Better isolation based on HyperContainer

        -   Usage

            -   &lt;&lt; usage within VM in a slide &gt;&gt;

        -   Features - lots from http://cd.screwdriver.cd/

            -   (scribe got distracted sending questions and failed to
                > take notes)

            -   Analytics of where time was consumed

            -   Templates

            -   Commands as low level atomic building blocks. SauceLabs
                > & FOSSA integration through that

        -   Contributors

            -   Yahoo Japan is the other contributors. They work
                > independently from us, except for bi-weekly sync.
                > (Despite the name Y!J is a separate entity.) They have
                > been with the project since early on.

            -   Various PRs from outside

        -   Governance

            -   Weekly sync between two companies appear the main
                > decision making process

            -   Documents and Kanban board on GitHub to record/support
                > those

        -   Gyehuda: Not duplicating the effort is why we came here

        -   Andy: alignment with VM’s interest?

            -   J: This software is providing what we need. That’s what
                > we get out of it

        -   KK: experience as an open-source project in the past 3
            > years?

            -   G: Our goal wasn’t so much to get “million contributors”

            -   “Now is the right time to grow”

                -   G: We see this as an opportunity to expand to more
                    > “partners”

                -   J: We were not focused on users outside VM either,
                    > but that’s something we are working on

                -   VM built out an awesome OSS office. Rosalie: I’ve
                    > been full time on OSS office, and screwdriver is
                    > one of my key projects

    -   DLc: [*Working group
        > proposal*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c33ML-lLCewrDjGxCisRxbwqcl21kmAjJ62GbgAaRFY/edit#heading=h.j6l535d46l0s)

        -   I’ve added SIGs in addition to the WGs now

        -   Please comment in the next few days, so that Dan can turn
            > this into a PR early next week

        -   Kay has already put together a SIG around security

June 18, 2019
-------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X) (absent)

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton)

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker) (I’m here!)

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google) (Here!)

    -   Yaov (JFrog) (absent)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   DLc: [*Working group
        > proposal*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c33ML-lLCewrDjGxCisRxbwqcl21kmAjJ62GbgAaRFY/edit#heading=h.j6l535d46l0s)

        -   **AI: DL: I’m going to work on the other SIG like proposal**

        -   DL: I had the security delivery chain WG in mind

        -   The infra usage metrics collection stuff could be a good fit

        -   Any thought behind “3 member companies” bar?

            -   DL: Not too much, 2 could do, too

        -   DLz: we should be prescriptive of the communication channels

        -   DLz: CoC should apply to WGs

        -   DL: I was trying to avoid zombie WGs. If any of this came
            > across heavy handed, that’s why

            -   Perhaps quarterly status updates

    -   DLc: Metrics collection for CDF projects (see email thread)

        -   Can the CDF help here with infrastructure? This wouldn't be
            > anything we "impose", just a framework and infrastructure
            > projects can use.

        -   TravisT: we are looking for how to instrument Spinnaker (and
            > possibly beyond to other CDF projects) to collect usage
            > info in privacy centric way

        -   Step 1: what’s the prior art in this space?

            -   **AI: there’s some more discoveries**

            -   **AI: DLc: I think K8s did something — I’ll find out who
                > did this.**

        -   Step 2: if not, what should we do? What do we want?

            -   TT: I’m willing to drive this forward

            -   TT: I’ve heard from somebody from Armory.io about their
                > input

            -   KK: I’d love to hook somebody in the Jenkins project up
                > here to help

            -   AG: we need the LF input and policy around PII, policy,
                > what members get access, etc.

            -   DLz: I’m happy to talk to Chris A and Mike D
                > (LF people). We should have a call.

            -   **AI: TT to start gathering Spinnaker requirements**

    -   KK: upcoming active committer rep to the GB

        -   Nomination

            -   DLz: We have some nominations. I’ll send this out to
                > the group.

        -   Voting eligibility

            -   DLz: it’s up to the TOC to decide.

        -   DLz: let’s aim for the end of the month. June 28th.

    -   Who’s going to be in Shanghai?

        -   DLc, Tara, a bunch of CB folks (Alyssa, JamesR, Carlos),
            > Chris A

    -   

June 4, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X)

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton)

    -   Andy Glover (Spinnaker)

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google)

    -   Yaov (JFrog)

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Welcome

        -   Yoav: (he didn’t make it this time)

        -   Tara

            -   Doing dev tools & infra for decades. Originally built
                > Tinderbox (‘cause tree is always on fire), that led
                > to CircleCI.

            -   Did bonsai (because branch control)

            -   My focus has been tooling & support of engineering
                > culture (from the eng mgmt side)

            -   I get to work with Jez Humble recently, who joined GOOG
                > through acquisition

            -   I know Tracy Miranda (CloudBees, director of community)

            -   I’m probably the least nerdy

    -   CD Summit Videos online:
        > [*https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9RB8bVvmiSOqB39eNMs-fAe*](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9RB8bVvmiSOqB39eNMs-fAe)

        -   Dan: TOC & WG sessions will go there as well

    -   Contributor.md maintenance

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTORS.md)

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/EMERITUS.md*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/EMERITUS.md)

    -   Code of conduct review

        -   [*https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CODE\_OF\_CONDUCT.md*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

        -   Dan: I wanted to give people the awareness

        -   KK: Is this intended to apply to projects, right? Dan: Yes.

        -   KK: This is the first time the CDF “imposes” something to
            > projects, so this should be pre-negotiated.

            -   AG: Spinnaker has the existing CoC policy. I’m curious
                > how different they are.

            -   JS: JX doesn’t yet have but we meant it, so this
                > is great.

            -   &lt;&lt; sounds like unifying this is not hard &gt;&gt;

        -   Tara: this is important stuff, I’m happy to contribute

        -   Dan: the reporter email address should be swapped out
            > to something. It’s currently me.

        -   **AI: KK to initiate the thread & sell the idea of unifying
            > CoC across the member projects & why that’s beneficial for
            > all of us**

        -   Spencer: Where is that alias go?

            -   KK: I think we should create the private TOC list and it
                > should go

        -   We the TOC are responsible to resolve this

        -   Spencer: how does the organizational memory get passed on
            > when TOC rotates

            -   KK: stagger, and archive

    -   Call to action: interested project proposals!

        -   Dan: now that we have the project proposal is in place,
            > let’s do this

        -   Screwdriver.cd & Huawei’s CDDL

        -   Tara: I talk to lots of fellow release nerds, they have bits
            > of pieces of stuff that they like to open-source. Can we
            > provide the guidance?

        -   **AI: Tara to start a thread on this. KK: I’ll chime in.**

    -   Events

        -   Upcoming

            -   Spencer: FYI, C

            -   Tara: C in SF, small scale sponsorship could be small
                > amount

            -   

        -   Listing presentations on github

        -   Dan: There’s an opportunity to have a co-located event in
            > [*OS
            > Summit*](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2019/attend/).
            > Contributor focused events.

            -   Dan: I’m discovering what that event team can do for us

        -   Dan: lunch & beer will attract people. Spencer: I can
            > ~~make~~ ask IBM do something for us! :)

        -   The conversation is ongoing to expand existing Jenkins & JX
            > contributor event to include Spinnaker (and hopefully to
            > Tekton as well) end of August.

            -   **AI: KK to connect Alyssa with Dan.**

    -   Dan: Meetups

        -   A few conversations ongoing to support community meetups.
            > Specifically, transitioning to Meetup Pro. Jenkins Area
            > Meetup would be the guinea pig for this.

            -   Dan: this is the conversation between Tracy so far. If
                > anyone wants to chime in, let me know

            -   KK: I’d love to see the execution plan when things get
                > to that point.

        -   Dan: there’s an upcoming meetup planned in San Jose. Dan to
            > coordinate with Tracy.

    -   Standards/Specs Workgroup

        -   Dan: FYI, there has been a couple of email threads/dialogs
            > that led me to believe there’s an interest for this

        -   **AI: DLop & DLor are talking to bring the initial proposal,
            > which should include some justification etc to let others
            > react**

    -   Update on operations

        -   Director of Ecosystem

            -   DLop: tracking toward bringing somebody onboard.
                > Starting date incoming in the next few days.

        -   PR/Media comms team

            -   DLop: this is coming into shape. By next call, they
                > should be onboard.

            -   When ready, they can start taking over social media,
                > whitepapers, blog posts, etc.

        -   DLop: I want everyone to look at cd.foundation to identify
            > missing content. I want to create a “CRM process” — lead
            > gen form to drive more membership, participation
            > in events.

    -   Tara: are folks going to Shanghai? I’m going

        -   KK: I know some folks from the Jenkins project is going

        -   Spencer: I know some IBM folks are going (JJ?)

        -   AI: Tara to send out a short email asking on this, and KK &
            > Spencer to forward that to the folks they know to get
            > stuff connected in a recorded format

    -   **AI: fix the permission of this doc to include Tara**

May 21, 2019
------------

-   Cancelled due to a collision with Kubecon, where a lot of TOC
    > members have gone to

May 7, 2019
-----------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   **Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]**

    -   **James Strachan (Jenkins X)**

    -   Dan Lorenc (Tekton)

    -   **Andy Glover (Spinnaker)**

    -   Tara Hernandez (Google)\*

    -   Kris Nova (VMware)\*

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Welcome Dan Lopez as a CDF PM!

        -   DLo: I’m an alumni

    -   Welcome 2 new TOC members: Tara + Kris

    -   [*FYI: CDF Summit at KubeCon EU on May
        > 20th!*](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2019/co-located-events/)
        > (remember to REGISTER)

        -   CA: we sold out 200, we bumped up 300. But even that is to
            > sell out by the next week

    -   [*FYI: CDF Summit at KubeCon China on June
        > 24th*](https://www.lfasiallc.com/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-china-2019/co-located-events/)
        > in Shanghai (remember to REGISTER)

        -   CfP will start very soon

    -   [*Project proposal
        > process*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/3/files)
        > discussion + queue for approval

        -   **Decision: CA/DL to kick off the vote**

        -   RT took the action to report back metrics that Jenkins
            > tracks

    -   New people on the call?

        -   Screwdriver.cd

            -   gyehuda: Here to listen & understand. Looking forward to
                > propose the project.

    -   Any other business?

        -   CA: marketing committee is ramping up & operational

        -   CA: legal committee is ramping up, motivated by a question
            > from Spinnaker

Apr 23, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   **Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]**

    -   **James Strachan (Jenkins X)**

    -   **Dan Lorenc (Tekton)**

    -   **Andy Glover (Spinnaker)**

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Review of action items from the last week

        -   KK: Finalize TOC principles for vote next week on mailing
            > list

            -   End of the vote is one week after calling of the vote

        -   ALL: Continue revisions on project proposals

        -   TDM: poke Jenkins X to list up infra requirements to
            > [*doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/153UnFN21VsSLUVTR35UKrnxmaIvlJCa38QUcaSvgSxI/edit)

            -   JS: I’m looking at this

    -   FYI: CDF GB met last week for the first time, approved initial
        > budget

    -   FYI: CDF GB is picking 2 TOC slots

        -   Voting ends: Wednesday, May 1, at 5pm Pacific Time

    -   [*FYI: CDF Summit at KubeCon EU on May
        > 20th!*](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2019/co-located-events/)
        > (remember to REGISTER)

        -   CA: we sold out 200, we bumped up 300. But even that is to
            > sell out by the next week

    -   [*FYI: CDF Summit at KubeCon China on June
        > 24th*](https://www.lfasiallc.com/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-china-2019/co-located-events/)
        > in Shanghai (remember to REGISTER)

        -   CA: There’ll be CfP soon

        -   KK: This is public, right? CA: Yes, you can tell people!

        -   CA: this is day 0 - Monday.

    -   FYI: New CDF Program Manager [*Dan
        > Lopez*](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlopez/) starting April
        > 29th!

        -   CA: he should be here in the next TOC meeting

        -   CA: we are also hiring “Director of community/ecosystem.” If
            > you know someone good, send them on our way.

            -   AG: where is the job description? **AI: CA to share the
                > job description**

    -   Call for vote on
        > [*principles*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/2)

        -   [*https://lists.cd.foundation/g/cdf-toc/message/39*](https://lists.cd.foundation/g/cdf-toc/message/39)
            > (TOC members please vote)

    -   [*Project proposal
        > process*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/3/files)
        > discussion + queue for approval

        -   Several outstanding comments — who’s court the ball is in?

            -   @cra addressed some comments, still WIP

            -   CA: TOC members are welcome to make edits to this draft.
                > So the ball is in the collective court of the TOC
                > members

        -   We want to aim for the vote to begin in the next TOC meeting

        -   DL: We still believe in vendor neutralness but we’ll stop
            > short of calling specific criteria

        -   Discussion about “2 sponsors” → we will keep this

            -   There will be 7 TOC members by the end of May (currently
                > there are only 4)

        -   **AI: DL to make a pass on this today or tomorrow**

    -   Q & A

        -   DL: how is the legal committee going?

            -   CA: this is being set up as we speak.

            -   **AI: CA: create legal@cd.foundation for inbound
                > legal questions.**

        -   Next meeting will be May 7th.

Apr 9, 2019
-----------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   **Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]**

    -   James Strachan (Jenkins X)

    -   **Dan Lorenc (Tekton)**

    -   **Andy Glover (Spinnaker)**

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   [*FYI: CDF Summit at KubeCon EU on May
        > 20th!*](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2019/co-located-events/)
        > (remember to REGISTER)

        -   This is happening in Shanghai as well. What role does the
            > TOC want to have in curating the agenda? \[dlorenc\]

            -   Independent program committee - driven by community

            -   Volunteers for committee

            -   mailing list for program discussions - TOC list for now

    -   [*TOC Principles*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/2)
        > approval?

        -   AI: Finalized draft with async vote next week on ML

    -   [*Project proposal
        > process*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/3/files)
        > discussion + queue for approval

        -   &lt;&lt; more notes here & AIs in the linked PR &gt;&gt;

        -   MW: I don’t think vanity metrics like GitHub star
            > is valuable. I know Jenkins has metrics that goes one
            > step further. It would be nice for us to mandate a higher
            > bar here

            -   KK: in Jenkins this is held together in a duct tape

        -   Next step for Chris to make some edits based on feedback.

    -   Gathering infrastructure requirements from projects, see
        > [*doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/153UnFN21VsSLUVTR35UKrnxmaIvlJCa38QUcaSvgSxI/edit)

        -   RT: I was looking to identify commonality between them, see
            > if there’s a room for consolidation

        -   RT: input from Jenkins X is needed / **TDM to follow up with
            > them**

        -   CLA bot unification? \[dlorenc\]

            -   Up to projects. If you want to keep Apache style CLA
                > bot, we can use the LF CLA bot.

            -   CA: or Developer Code of Origin: (Linux kernel style
                > “Signed-Off-By” header), but project’s counsel might
                > disagree

            -   Ping Chris to get moved over

    -   First CDF GB meeting on April 18th (they will select 3
        > TOC candidates)

        -   Nomination period, votes coming up after

        -   Potentially within 3 weeks

    -   AG: big companies often call us to ask if they have permission
        > to use Spinnaker logo. In the CDF world who gives the
        > authoritative answer?

        -   CA to create FAQ entry. In the future, we need to create a
            > trademark policy. That’s up to GB.

    -   Action Items:

        -   KK: Finalize TOC principles for vote next week on mailing
            > list

        -   ALL: Continue revisions on project proposals

        -   TDM: poke Jenkins X to list up infra requirements to
            > [*doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/153UnFN21VsSLUVTR35UKrnxmaIvlJCa38QUcaSvgSxI/edit)

Mar 26, 2019
------------

-   **TOC Attendees:**

    -   **Kohsuke Kawaguchi (Jenkins) \[CHAIR\]**

    -   **James Strachan (Jenkins X)**

    -   **Dan Lorenc (Tekton)**

    -   **Andy Glover (Spinnaker)**

-   **Other Attendees:**

    -   Sheroy Marker

    -   Fatih Degirmenci

    -   Tyler Croy

    -   Michael Winser

    -   Tracy Miranda

-   **Agenda and Notes:**

    -   Welcome!

        -   Andy Glover: Netflix, Spinnaker, Bay Area

        -   James Strachan: Jenkins X, the UK, 150 miles west of London

        -   Dan Lorenc: Google, Tekton

        -   Sheroy Marker: head of tech, ThoughtWorks, Bay Area

        -   Fatih Degirmenci: Ericsson but I’m here as individual,
            > Sweden

        -   Kohsuke Kawaguchi: aka KK, Jenkins guy, the bay area

        -   Chris Aniszczyk: LF “behind the scenes guy”

        -   Tyler Croy: Jenkins board member, US west coast

    -   CDF TOC Meeting Cadence? (every 2 weeks to start?)

        -   AGREED: 2 weeks same time of the week (2nd and 4th Tue at
            > 9am PT)

        -   DL: in person meetings where we can?

            -   Let’s pencil this in — AG: I haven’t made my plan yet

            -   CA to look into logistics a bit

            -   CA: it’d be nice to have a face-to-face between CNCF &
                > CDF TOCs

    -   CDF TOC Values/Principles (see
        > [*doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s1vF0bEvlKk7bgra2-456eNU_uknZQ8l3HMc797ApJo/edit))

        -   People seem to be happy of the current version

        -   Next step: turn this into GitHub PR, a round of comments and
            > updates, and vote in the next TOC meeting.

        -   **[*DONE*](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/2):
            > ACTION: Kohsuke to turn this into a PR**

    -   CDF TOC Project Acceptance Process (see
        > [*example*](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/blob/master/PROJECT_PROGRESSION.md)
        > and end of values document)

        -   CA: [*I added this starting point in the
            > doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s1vF0bEvlKk7bgra2-456eNU_uknZQ8l3HMc797ApJo/edit#heading=h.cqpstx8vnye0)

        -   DL: is the long queue in CNCF because of its process?

            -   CA: I don’t expect that many projects in here

            -   AGREED: that’s not a problem for us for now

        -   On maturity levels

            -   DL: there are implications of maturity levels to TOC
                > seats

                -   KK: having three stages help here — incubating &
                    > graduating projects are eligible for seats?

            -   What do different groups to during incubation

                -   Be on the treadmill toward the explicit graduation
                    > criteria

                -   CA: CDF DevStats:
                    > [*http://devstats.cd.foundation*](http://devstats.cd.foundation)
                    > is helpful

            -   AG: anything you don’t recommend from copying CNCF?

                -   CA: if early stage project is important, just
                    > copy it. If not, we can cut that part out

                -   &lt;&lt; opinions seem to be favoring omitting
                    > sandbox &gt;&gt;

                -   Can be added later, but removing a box is harder

                -   KK: if we do without sandbox, there needs to be some
                    > adoption/maturity criteria for the incubating

            -   AGREED: omit sandbox for now. Two stages

            -   **Next step: add meat to those two stages.**

    -   FYI: First CDF GB meeting will be April 18th (GB will host TOC
        > election for their slots)

        -   CA: we expect GB to send us 3 more people. 2 slots left
            > “back-pocketed” for new projects

            -   Election would probably take 2 weeks to run

        -   **CA: if we have candidates we want, we should propose that
            > to GB**

            -   CA: think about diversity inclusion.

            -   CA: end user representatives are valuable

            -   CA: we can also reach out publicly

            -   KK: let’s think about people we want here

        -   AG: how about staggered terms?

            -   CA: at CNCF we did a lottery to decide who gets 1 year &
                > 2 year to create staggers. This will happen after GB
                > sends the rest of people

    -   Q&A

        -   DL: CDF Summit quick update (co-located with
            > Kubecon Barcelona)

            -   4 overviews from each projects in the morning

            -   Panels in the afternoon being planned

            -   200 capacity. 90+ has already signed up.

            -   [*Link to the planning
                > doc*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M1Cjz-cZH-6t_Iarzs4fcmkQVOrD3VavrzsTGqIP6CU/edit)

        -   AG: what’s the expected updates to projects?

            -   CA: No need to change package names, namespaces, etc

            -   CA: website update expected.

        -   TC: Jenkins team will have a meeting with LF infra team.
            > Would Spinnaker folks be interested in aligning?

            -   CA: let’s discover what the needs are

            -   AG: I think about Travis, Artifactory, Discourse, Slack,
                > …

            -   CA: Let’s collect requirements. Let’s start Google Doc
                > and throw things in there to start with

                -   **TC: I’ll start the doc & add Jenkins stuff here**

                -   CA: this would be a good place to also list up
                    > assets slated for transfer

    -   ACTIONS

        -   (see 4 action items above, bold lined)

        -   CA: any budget related things, let me know before the first
            > GB meeting

            -   CA: we prefer projects to come with specific asks

            -   Let’s get baseline of what’s being spent today

        -   CA: we are looking to hire somebody as “program manager”

        -   DONE: Dan to turn the invite into recurring

        -   DONE: CA to setup Zoom & recording

    -
