# Ortelius 2024 Q2

## Roadmap

- Hero Project to collect metrics and metadata using CDEvents.  Team as started with high-level requirements.  Next step to create a formal requirements doc.
- Investigated CNCF NATS project for CDEvents message bus.
- Working with CDEvents working group understand schema and requirements for Hero Project.

## Features and release

- Features:
  - New microservice added to store raw SBOM in ArangoDB
  - Added gathering of OpenSSF Scorecard results for each Component and Package Dependencies
  - New microservice added that uses the Stanford NPL Machine Learning/AI model to associate a Mitre Attack Technique to the OpenSSF CVEs.

- Bug Fixes:
  - Changed SBOM license hyperlink lookup to improve speed.
  - Changed npm dependencies for new Svelt frontend to resolve CVE in nested dependencies
  - Pinned nodejs to 21.1.0
  - Moved docker base images from chaingaurd to amazonlinux:2023 to fix CVEs in python microservices

## Adoption updates

No new adoptions that we are aware of

## Community Updates

Handful of new contributors have joined.  One interested in making coding changes.  Other, interested in the Ortelius architecture, outreach and roadmaps.

## Governance updates

Governing Board and TOC meet once a quarter.
- [Governing Board Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oJ2k0mcltc5C8_6xBYkYy_97dQudPcAT7yWIRFzO_lk/edit#heading=h.uwkmvfmryfjv)
- [TOC Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ilQJqtkMOfamLo701WJ4ZQO-n5tWC5QJrbfv2O6JGU0/edit)

## Security updates

Revonate runs on all (~40) repos keeping dependencies up to date.  CVEs are fixed within 2-3 days.

## Fun Fact

Ortelius now runs on native Kubernetes cluster on top of Raspberry Pi hardware.  Instructions [here](https://ortelius.io/blog/2024/04/05/how-to-bake-an-ortelius-pi-part-1-the-hardware/)
